umuou’s Pauuacu. xiii

necessary, that certain Congresscs of Christian Powers
should be held, in which controversias which ariae among
some of them may be decided by others who are not inte·
rested; and in which measures may be taken to compel the
parties to accept peace on equitable terms.” I trust that
all Students and Professors of International Low will con-
sider themselves as labouring upon a Problem which is
still unsolved, while War exists; and in which all thc ap·
proximate solutions must make wara more rare and more
brief, as well as more orderly and more humane.
Notwithstanding the love of peace and the spirit of
humanity which thus runs ¹through the work of Grotius, it
has been blamed by some, as sanctioning, by its doctrines,
many of the most savage usages of war. But this objec-
tion can be made, Ithink, only by those who have not
read the book with due attention. It is true, that in
certain parts of the Third Book, he states the customary
Rules, according to which wars have always been carried
on3 which Rules allow killing men, taking prisoners, cap·
turing property, laying waste a country, and the like.
And these he calls the Rights os War‚· and gives inter-
pretatione of the rules which may seem very severe. But
this, he himself notes: and when he has performed this
part of his task, he forthwith (in Chap. x.) proceeds to
say, “I am now going to take from belligerents what 1
have seemed to grant to them, but have not really grant-
ed :'' and then he goes on with a series of Chapters, which
he calls Temperameata, Restraints as to the exercise of
these Rights of War, derived from considerations of
humanity, justice, expedicnce and pietyz and by these
“temperamenta'’ he divests war of all the cruelty and
hardship which are separable from it. Still, some persons
appear to be offended at violent and oppressiva practices
being called Rights in any sense. Upon this, 1 would

 

